Step 1: Download the installation package

The first step is to download the XAMPP package for Linux from the official Apache Friends website:

https://www.apachefriends.org/index.html

Step 2: Click XAMPP for Linux. It's in the middle of the page. This will prompt the XAMPP setup file to begin downloading onto your computer.

You may have to click Save File or select the "Downloads" folder as your save location before proceeding.

Step 3: Allow the download to complete. 

Once XAMPP's installation file finishes downloading onto your computer, you can proceed.

Step 4: Open Terminal. Click the Terminal app icon, which resembles a black box with a white ">_" inside of it.

You can also just press Alt+Ctrl+T to open a new Terminal window.

Step 5: Change over to the "Downloads" directory. 
 
Type in cd Downloads and press ↵ Enter. 

Step 6: Make the downloaded file executable. Type in chmod +x xampp-linux-x64-7.2.9-0-installer.run﻿ and press ↵ Enter.

If you download a different version of XAMPP (e.g., version 5.9.3), you'll replace "7.2.9" with your XAMPP version's number.

Step 7: Enter the installation command. 
 
Type in sudo ./xampp-linux-x64-7.2.9-0-installer.run﻿ and press ↵ Enter. 

Step 8: Enter your password when prompted. Type in the password you use to log into your computer, then press ↵ Enter. The installation window will pop up.

You won't see the characters appear in Terminal when you type.

Step 9: Follow the installation prompts. Once the installation window appears, do the following:

    Click Next three times.
    Uncheck the "Learn more about Bitnami for XAMPP" box.
    Click Next, then click Next again to begin installing XAMPP.
 
Step 10: Uncheck the "Launch XAMPP" box. It's in the middle of the final installation window.

Since XAMPP needs a few extra steps to actually run on Linux, you'll need to finish the installation without automatically running XAMPP.

Step 11: Click Finish. 

This option is at the bottom of the window. Doing so will close the installation window. At this point, you're ready to run XAMPP. 

